hi guys it's bazi the everyday vegan and
i'm here with julian of jacob's rich
hello Pig village so Julian it's been
amazing within a week and we've loved it
so thank you for a fabulous also i want
to give you the opportunity to talk
about a little bit any actually sure
youtube public what it's all about and
what you're doing etc and i thought you
might want to start with a little tour
of it all yeah beauty see ya Oh welcome
to shake and rich I'm glad you've had a
good time it's also important you've
been amazing this is the pool area this
is the best hang out yes is that hanging
out area a bit of lunch by the pool just
sort of all get back here really catch
some Sun then you've got the ridge
behind it which is actually an old block
from where the river used to run and
it's since been dammed a beautiful
bamboo down the bottom as well and
you've got fruit trees and everything
which is really nice we go on we went
dog walking every morning so I was
hoping that for the first little bit of
this interview we could just do a little
tour but yeah yeah okay yeah absolutely
yeah it's gonna meet them you offer me
some of the dudes a dude you're bossy
Jacob of Jacob's rich he was like our
first rescue he came from our friends
over at ec forced air rescue center I
think it was because he was a bit
boisterous yeah he sort of sailed
straight really he's been with us now
ask me about years as a family we
started eight years ago gavina just as
Jacobs read as a venture started only
last year so we're only see the names
taken yeah is my boy recently been
usurped as the herd leader by bandit
where's the family now sure that we have
a good relationship he's a bit of a thug
but he's a good lad let's meet some of
the others yeah we're with the pig this
is Elvis everybody this is a big Grouch
it now because it's really hard why
don't you tell us about the pigs and
where the name this is so we'll start
first contacts from various people
before our eyes and more people
contacting us so we started up pig
village which was really nothing more
than just a Facebook page just takes off
like but some are no fun to it really
but then what happened was as the
sanctuary grew we were taking on more
animals obviously the financial strain
was getting very very high so we needed
a solution that would feed everybody and
how's everybody and then this veterinary
care and then there's everything else
associated with it Rogers one big
expenses yeah it's just good in
continual so we need
solution so that's for Jacobs which came
from so Jacobs which was an idea to make
a sustainable animal sanctuary that was
independent nations and so far it's been
really good and I think the the vegan
connection has been really good as well
that's that seems to have sparked a
thing with people as well because
obviously if you're a vegan and you're
into animal welfare a lot of st. is out
there that just I will have a barbecue
that weekend as a fun drunk that's all I
got yeah it is crazy so yeah it seems to
work well it's a good solution it's very
very dependent on qantas and how many
pigs have you got all together currently
will count them yeah yeah we do got 58
pics here at the moment yeah yeah you've
got more often yes more at the back as
well so yeah many you do regularly stay
in their beds oh there's normally 19 in
this pen but it fluctuates between 22
and nine that's gonna say depending on a
lot of free-riding pigs around yeah that
that has to be controlled over the time
because obviously the neighbors get
little bit upset well things are running
through the garden and you know their
food and stuff so yeah they're not quite
as sympathetic as we are or as excited
to see a pig finding a solution that is
affordable and effective and without
actually caging them because that's not
we're not a zoo you know there's not
something we're not going to ever be
this is ideal if as long as they respect
the fences and they stay in it because
this is like a close to a natural
environment as we can get and you know
they can they can build their nests they
can you know we obviously build this for
sure a bit of extra shading we run the
water through the middle so I almost
acts like a little river and it's a
constant mud bath for them it's perfect
and there's no barriers not they're not
stopping and if they really want to get
out there just get it yeah that you
bring your hand they really find which
is a good thing so let's go meet the
goats yeah goes let's go I know
Wow so last station on our little tour
yeah we're with the goats which you
can't see because I'm not very sociable
but they exist somewhere and all the
piggies are hiding in the shade at the
moment but you were going to tell me
about the volunteers yeah the volunteer
program obviously is the Jacobs rich
thing it's really important to us
because it's the lifeblood of the
sanctuary completely and without the
volunteers we won't be able to do it we
wouldn't be able to survive so it really
is so important and I'm absolutely just
adore the volunteers that come here
because it really does make a big
difference there's a lot of fun take it
sounds like volunteering right like you
work with the animals a little bit in
the morning you work with them a little
bit in the evening and then yeah and any
other activities from what I understand
a voluntary or if you have projects also
yeah I mean as I will say to people look
you know being here is volunteering in
itself I'm sitting with a pig for young
and afternoon read it read a book Jimmy
knock you may give a belly rub that's
all volunteering because it's all
interaction which they will actually
need and I personally don't have the
time to spend with 100-plus animals you
know all the time so over a hundred
animals yes over a hundred hours ago so
but yeah we trust try and make it as
friendly and as far as possible because
obviously you're on holiday as well yeah
and we don't crack the whip we're not
like you know you will be up at this
time yeah well do this new we know you
it's not like that you said you said you
guys will be up at seven o'clock I
wasn't asked at seven o'clock any day no
I'm not gonna lie neither was i but yeah
just it's about just having fun really
and and it's all your like-minded people
getting together and doing something
that is yet worthwhile and making a
difference i mean we're making a
difference to so many do you know of
these animals like yeah and we would
like to do more we want to grow the
ridge you want to make it bigger and
rescue more the goat it slowly coming
because they're curious here we are so
how do people get in touch the best way
is through info at jacobs rich calm yeah
which is the email address in the bottom
someone in here yeah and or the facebook
page facebook said that's how we found
you at yeah yeah the facebook page seems
to work very well we're obviously on
ram as well contact us through there you
know any just just make contact somehow
find us I know I'm enjoying it and I you
open all year round and no we are open
from april until october yeah i'm
looking at extending the season but it
just becomes a little bit more difficult
because it's a bit colder and whereas
now we can enjoy sunshine we can go rock
jumping we buy aking we can do all those
become your fear yeah own fear on you
but yeah so you're knocked over it
becomes something different but that
means you know you know in the winter
months we can do campfires we can do
things like that which is a bit more
you're still in tune with nature and you
know you get in that connection which i
think is really ultimately important
because i think as vegans you know i
mean i'm vegan the staff that work here
all vegan majority of the volunteers
augment the majority of the volunteers
that come here vegan but we're not
closed off you know we don't say oh well
if you're not vegan you can't come all
about dialogue isn't yeah absolutely
absolutely and I think this is a really
good opportunity to you know for non
vegans to come along connect with the
animals connect with nature and perhaps
ask questions of themselves of their
diet and what they're eating and what
they're actually no supporting in the
way of photog a lot of people being in a
new bikini friends of the vision and
yeah like okay I need you now yeah yeah
it works it really does work i think it
is that that eats that connection of and
getting people to understand what
they're eating Oh sentient beings just
like you and me absolutely lastly what's
the future hold for Jacobs rich and well
I would like to open up more that's the
plan but first things first we've got to
get this one right and you know I would
like it to be an absolute you know gold
standard as far as an animal center is
concerned I would like it to be
completely self-sufficient non dependent
on donations and once I've got that
working properly it works the business
on which I think will take probably
another year or two and then I would
like to see it grow and because I think
we can
effectively move this model and and put
them anywhere yeah it would be obviously
tailored differently for different
locations but yeah that's that's the
plan completely and I think it's got a
good chances of doing that and we're
certainly by the sort support we've got
so far which has been just tremendous
absolutely and honestly I've had great
times yeah I admire what you do great
and I can only say to you guys to come
here and support the straight cause it's
been often it yeah brilliant and you
thank you very much all right cheerio
see you soon